# Downloading-of-NASA-PACE-Image-data-using-our-STS-Customized-HyperCoast-Software
We have created a Jupyter Notebook for you to download from GitHub so that you too can download PACE data use HyperCoast features to view and process the PACE data. 

As a newcomer to the Florida West Coast, it became very apparent that Florida has some stiff challenges in facing an old problem of Red Tide (Karenia brevis). When this algal bloom drifts toward our shoreline, we have problems. Red Tide gives off a toxic vapor that attacks the lungs, kills the fish and other aquatic wildlife and results in a huge negative impact on the economy and tourism. Yes, Red Tide has been around for millions of years, but is what can we do the mitigate the impact? Is it possible for us to at least identify and track these harmful algal blooms as an early warning system?

It just so happens that NASA has just launched a new satellite called PACE (Plankton, Aerosol, Cloud Ocean Ecosystem) with hyperspectal data that focuses on our ocean ecosystem and microscopic algae called phytoplankton including our Red Tide species. 

The problem with PACE data is that it is hyperspectral data in that each pixel in our PACE image has 184 channels of spectral data from 339nm in the UV range to 719nm in the near red edge of the visible spectrum. This is a lot of data. However, our friends at Open Geospatial Solutions have a new project called HyperCoast that can be used to download the PACE data that you need with your geographic coordinates, requested dates and cloud cover. After the download you can view individual channel data on interactive maps or even view the wavelength spectrum of each pixel that you request. HyperCoast works extremely well. In addition, we can then use then use the HyperCoast data structure to calculate your own indices such as Chlorophyll a and possibly Red Tide algal bloom locations for the requested PACE data. 

We have created a Jupyter Notebook for you to download from GitHub so that you too can download PACE data use HyperCoast features to view and process the PACE data. In addition, we have extracted the source code and run it directly in each cell to better understand how the actual source code can be used to view the PACE data and use these data to calculate Chlorophyll and in time Red Tide blooms. 
